Well welcome back.
So essay chair works great ish depending on your opinion.
It at least does what it's supposed to do.
It makes requests so that's great.
But there are a couple of problems.
The first most obvious issue is just the syntax.
It's ugly bulky.
It's not very clean and it doesn't reflect you know how often we're making requests nowadays it's just
not as distinct as it could be and that's largely a byproduct of how old it is.
So sh are 16 years old.
It was written in a completely different time and it was written with completely different intentions
for how it would be used.
Nobody really saw single page apps or maybe I guess I can't say that definitively but it wasn't created
with single page apps in mind which is what the majority of H.R. requests are being used for today.
So it was created in a different environment.
And along with that some of the advanced things that we do nowadays things like service workers or streaming
data having really large amounts of data that we want to stream in.
We don't really have support for with SH.
And I just want to highlight you know these two are far more important problems in my opinion than this
but I just wanted to put this here so I can show you a cool example in just a second.
But before we get there I want to introduce the update to H.R..
So javascript is old but it has gone through iterations.
There are new features that are constantly added.
It's a lot of what this course covers.
So it's only fair that H.R. also gets a facelift.
Enter the French API.
So fetch is the replacement or the update to ex-aide char.
It's a nice clean syntax.
It's more powerful.
It exposes more of the underlying data in the response and requests that exit char doesn't.
And it lets you do things that you cannot do with Exige ours.
So here's a quick example and talked about how Accenture doesn't support streaming.
So this is a demo someone built that will request the first billion digits of pi and we can enter a
substring to search for.
So something like I don't know 4 9 8 7 and I can hit search and with an X a char what would happen is
we would have to get all of the data back all 1 billion digits of pi first and then search through it
but with fetch.
What I can actually do is stream the data back and check along the way.
Have we encountered this substring.
If we have.
OK stop I don't need the rest.
So here's an example if I hit this you can see it performing it and it finds it at position 1 5 1 0
rather than at position 1 billion which is what would happen if we were working with X H.R..
So not something that you would ever do but I just want to show you that this is a possibility.
This is kind of more advanced feature that allows us to do but more important than this kind of thing
is the syntax.
This is how you do it.
So for the simplest get request it's fetch and then you go and that's it.
Actually make the request and it returns a promise which is something that we'll be talking a lot more
about in this course.
You've seen them briefly will expand more later on but you can see we have it then and it does catch.
So whatever goes in the door then will happen after the fetch is completed unless something goes wrong
in which case our code and dumb catch will run.
Now we'll talk about what causes the dumb catch to trigger and how to handle errors.
So I really just want to focus on that then for now.
So fetch you know returns to promise then whatever code we want we'll run once the Fed completes.
So very simple let's give it a shot.
I have a really simple code Penn called first fecche example and I recently used the Bitcoin API we've
already seen here and just request it using fetch.
So we're not going to build anything.
I just want to show you how simple it is.
So I'm going to do a fetch you R-O in on its own.
That's it.
But of course I want my data then so I can do something afterwards.
And I'm going to call this data here and just do a console that log data and if I open up my console
and we clear this and refresh the page you'll see here's what I get back.
This is the response itself.
So we don't just get the response data back.
We get an entire response object that contains a bunch of things in it we can see the status code so
he could do something like out blog status code was and then add in data status and minimized some of
this more space save and refresh.
And you can see recounts without logging the entire response.
And then also status code was 200.
Now if we actually want to extract the data that Jason there is a nice built in way of doing that as
well with fetch we can use the dot Jaison method which will also return a promise because this could
potentially take a while.
In our case it won't.
But if we had a massive response body lots adjacent in there to be parsed it could take a moment.
So it returned to promise allowing us to wait until it's done.
So let me just show you in practice how that works.
So I'm going to actually get rid of all this.
I'm going to rename this to response.
Just so it's clearer that this itself is the response that's being returned.
As we can see here.
So there's a method on this called Jaison so I can do.
Response that Jason and I can just do a constant log just like this and you'll see what I get.
I get this promise back and it says it's been resolved but that's what's actually returned is the promise
to actually do something will take the promise that's returned from this and we will return it itself.
So I can do a return response that Jay's on just like this.
And I have a couple of options.
I can do a then right here or I can do it here.
Yes remember we have this first then which return to promise which you're returning here.
Response Jason.
So I can chain on that then which is the next thing that will happen when this finishes either here
like this pass in my function Let's call the let's call it data.
And here I can do a console that log data just like that and you'll see we get our parsed J song.
So let me clear this make this clearer if I refresh.
First thing that happens fetch fetch happens shocker.
We make a request that we get a response object back then.
So when that fetch is done this code executes all of it.
So if we have this response and we're constantly logging the response so that's where this comes from.
But then we're doing response Jason and it returns a promise.
So what we're going to do is return that promise and this dog then and we can change then inside like
this.
But I prefer to do it this way and move this here and functionally they do the same thing because we're
adding a return response Jason.
This promise has returned from here and this ensuing then happens after this finishes.
So then we're printing data.
So there's a couple of layers right.
Fetch happens when that's done we're going to print response.
We're going to return this promise.
And when that resolves and this is done this done then it's called and when this does then it's called
nothing else happens.
But inside of it were counted that logging data and it works just one more time reload the page and
we get our current first council log and then our data.
And we could do something with it of course constantly log data dot BPI.
Let's do the euro price dot.
You are right
and there we go.
So I won't waste your time showing you appended to the page and all that but this is a nice way of making
requests.
I think it's kind of cute using promises is preferrable to nesting a bunch of callbacks.
You know it's in my opinion it's just much better.
And I'll show you a situation where we have kind of nastier code nasty is wrong word but longer code
with more nested code or more potential to nested it and how using fetch allows us to extract things
into separate methods and make our actual fetch and promis logic really nice and clean.
Next up we'll have a quick video where I'll show you how to provide options when you make a request
so you don't have to always make get requests.
You can pass data and you can set headers manually.
I'll show you how to do that and next video.
See you then.